#LyX 1.6.4 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass letter
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{microtype}
\date{March 24, 2009}

\pdfinfo{
   /Author (Freddie Witherden)
   /CreationDate (D:20090324195600)
   /ModDate (D:20090324195600)
}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman times
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 0
\use_esint 0
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\leftmargin 4.2cm
\rightmargin 4.2cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout My Address
Freddie Witherden
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Room 270
\series bold
A
\series default
, Selkirk Hall
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Princes Gardens, Watts Way
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

London SW7 1LU 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Send To Address
Carl Shimeild
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

TV Licensing
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Bristol BS98 1TL 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Red fields are mandatory, green ones optional.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Signature
Freddie Witherden
\end_layout

\begin_layout Opening
Dear Mr.
 Shimeild,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I am writing to you in response of your letter, received on the 24th of
 March 2009, ref: 3110570576STU, not because it deserves a reply but because
 it is so factually incorrect and riddled with frivolous assumptions that
 not replying would amount a crime in itself.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Let me begin by stating, without equivocation or a Salmon of doubt, that
 I have no interest whatsoever in purchasing or buying a TV license on account
 that I do not watch television at my current address.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
With the formalities now out of the way I will begin by addressing the first
 line of your letter, which reads ``We have tried to contact you several
 times between September 2008 and February 2009 about buying a TV license,
 and haven't received your response.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 I am unsure what the TV licensing definition of 
\emph on
contact
\emph default
 is but it is clearly incongruous with the objective vernacular.
 This is the first correspondence which I have received from TV licensing
 since moving in on the 4th of October 2008.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
While I can only speculate if any genuine attempts were made to contact
 me before today or if this is just `smoke and mirrors' from what is arguably
 the most bureaucratic, officious and callous branch of 
\emph on
Her Majesty's Government
\emph default
 it is worth bearing the following two things in mind when engaging in further
 correspondence:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
addressing a letter to ``the legal occupier
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 is not helpful when routing mail;
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
my room is 270
\series bold
A
\series default
 not 270.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Further down the page the letter goes onto say ``If you do not watch TV
 at this address, please let us known by calling 0844 800 6707.
 We may send officers to confirm the situation.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 This passage makes the virulent assumption that one has access to a phone
 --- which I do not.
 Additionally the letter fails to provide 
\series bold
any
\series default
 return address whatsoever, making correspondence difficult at best.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In lieu of sending officers would you instead consider sending a TV detector
 van? (Of similar ilk to the ones which feature prominently in your advertising
 campaigns.) As a physicist I would be incredibly interested to learn just
 how this pseudo-scientific device works, if at all.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Closing
Polemically yours,
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
