#LyX 1.6.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{microtype}
\date{June 13, 2009}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman times
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Security of the Southside Halls of Residence
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Freddie Witherden
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It all seemed rather impressive: swipe cards, RFID, strange looking keyholes
 and a security guard on-hand to testify about the impressive security of
 the Southside `complex'.
 At least that is how it was presented during freshers week.
 We were told that so long as our doors were shut correctly that it was
 almost impossible to break in and that all burglaries thus-far had been
 as a result of students not shutting their doors.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So that's exactly what the 350+ freshers living in Southside did — in the
 belief that they were secure.
 Of course, it was not long before the more astute students realised that
 it was theoretically possible to open the doors using a credit card.
 A Hollywood favourite shimming is a lock-bypass technique whereby a flexible
 object — such as a credit card — is slid in between the door and the frame
 and used to manipulate the latch.
 For this to work two conditions must be satisfied.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Firstly, the door can not be dead bolted, which is when bolt is connected
 directly to the locking cylinder.
 Thus the only way to move the bolt is to rotate the cylinder — which requires
 the key to be inserted.
 Although most house locks are dead bolted those in Southside are not.
 This is as a result of the swipe card access system.
 (In order for the doors to automatically lock when closed the latch must
 always be free to move.)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Secondly, there must be sufficient space between the frame and the door
 to allow a shim to be inserted.
 Although this should 
\series bold
never
\series default
 be the case there is no substitute for shoddy workmanship, as I will get
 into later.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
While you occasionally heard stories of someone in another Southside hall
 managing to get into their rooms using a credit card, few took them seriously,
 assuming that his/her door had shifted significantly to make it possible.
 Until, that is, I tried it myself.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After five minutes R&D with a fellow Physicist and an empty coke can we
 had created our own shim.
 Being made of aluminium it was a good deal thinner than a credit card and
 much better shaped.
 Using this we were able to open (with permission, naturally) over 70% of
 the doors we tried.
 Usually the entire process, from inserting the shim to opening the door
 takes a smidgeon under five seconds.
 Five seconds!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Some of the doors are so bad that it is possible to open them by wedging
 an unfolded Tropicana carton in between the door and the frame and jiggling
 it around for a few seconds.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
But, there's more.
 Each person in Southside has a lockable drawer in their wardrobe.
 Perfect for valuables, such as cash, passports &c — or so we thought.
 Sadly the locks used on these drawers are some of the poorest I have come
 across in my two years of picking.
 In lock-jargon terms: the locks have an open rectangular keyhole with a
 single row of three pins; none of which are security pins.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
With a set of lock picks it is possible to open any of the drawers in Southside
 in under ten seconds, on average.
 However to add insult to injury, so to speak, it is possible to open them
 in a similar amount of time using nothing but a screwdriver and metal paper
 clip.
 Although those with any experience picking locks normally frown at the
 use of paper clips (on most real locks they are useless) the locks in Southside
 are so exceptionally poor that they are actually a valid option.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is a somewhat disturbing thought that a would-be burglar needs nothing
 more than a folded up coke can, a screwdriver and a paper clip to be able
 to successfully mount an crime spree on most of the rooms in Southside.
 Moreover with tailgating into the building as easy as it is this is something
 of a real concern for both myself and others who I have talked to on the
 issue.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So, what can be done about all of this? Well, in the short term, very little.
 Thankfully with only one week left and very few (if any) robberies this
 year us Southside residents can consider ourselves lucky.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the long term security and residency will need to look at each and every
 door in Southside and see if it is vulnerable to shimming.
 If this is the case then the door will need to be reseated such that it
 is impossible to insert a shim.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If nothing is done then I would not be surprised if by the time next years
 lambs come to the slaughter (I mean, err, freshers) that over 85% of the
 doors could be susceptible to shimming.
 This is because Southside appears to be either (depending on who you talk
 to) still settling or subsiding; resulting in ever larger gaps between
 doors and frames.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As for the lockable drawers, my 
\emph on
personal
\emph default
 recommendation is that locks on each drawer are changed to something more
 substantial.
 It is somewhat ironic that the locks on the doors — which are seldom used
 — are some of the best in the industry (jargon: Mul-T-lock Classic dimple
 locks featuring pins-in-pins, layman: reasonably difficult to pick) while
 the drawer locks are some of the worst available.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Finally, what does this mean for the new Eastside halls? While I have not
 visited Eastside yet I would not be surprised if it uses the same set-up
 as Southside and so is also likely to be equally vulnerable.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
